My most recent company
was a social media agency.
They had their custom technology stack to
manage advertising campaigns with social
media influencers, creating content.
About a client's products or services.
The other main value proposition is
that every client gets a dedicated.
Client success team to do everything
on their behalf and they get bespoke
reporting after the campaign wraps up.
Of course it should be apparent
that this type of service can
be really expensive to operate.
So recently the leadership team
was asking the hot question.
Can AI make any of those cheaper?
The short answer after much discovery
and research is no, not really.
No.
AI platform or vendor has of today
can really replace the unique creative
requirements and outputs of any given
marketing campaign that we launch.
With in our system at any
given moment, we may have.
10 videos about a bottled water
launch or 200 about new lifts that
color or 5,000 travel tip videos.
Each video needs to be assessed to its own
creative brief in both content and tone.
However, instead of the problem being
about replacing everything with AI, the
team, and I produce a multi-phase plan
to increase the efficiency and ultimately
the operating margins of the company.
It would let her up to what AI
would do well by first implementing
his technological cousins.
The first phase was using old school
logarithms to automate the workflows.
We had several third party
platforms in place to track and
document what the teens were doing.
We realized by adding our few
simple calculations to our custom
platform, we could sunset all of them.
Because ultimately every action
needs to occur within our software.
So we can add logarithms to track
the assets against the deadlines.
And who did the tasks?
This new data could then fly
the health of a campaign.
What goals are left unfinished and
even do automated time tracking
on behalf of everyone involved.
The second phase after the
logarithms was machine learning ML.
We have two main buckets of data.
One 10 years worth of working
with social media influencers
and their performance data.
Of that content they
posted to their accounts.
This we could crunch until unique tagging
system that could predict and suggest the
best influencers for future campaigns.
Also after phase one
is working for a while.
We're going to take all of that
internal team's performance, the
scope out and price out feature
campaigns with our clients.
Because we would know how everything
actually took in terms of time and effort.
The third phase.
Would be to eventually implement
AI in very specific use cases.
This makes for easy to sprint
planning with the engineering team
has we can insert them into the
backlog has separate features.
We realize  new theory of not
letting AI do everything, but we're
gonna let the, I do the first pass.
So the metaphor is like having an
intern attempt to do a task and then you
would go in and double-check the work.
So we would love the AI
to do simple checking.
Like if the influencer used the
right hashtags in their posts or.
Or assess if the posted video they posted
tutor accounts was actually the video
that we approved for them weeks before.
It would run the script and then
notify human to check as assessment.
So ultimately these three phases
together would lead to the
biggest cost savings and that.
In some ways what's outside
the UX and software.
But it was only possible because
of the UX and technology.
Since the system was  aware
of task delegation and time
scoping and continuously taking
over more and more tasks.
The human side simplifies.
To a point where you can just transition
to lower cost job roles to supervise
and to manage a client what dynamically.
So substituting in